>> Jem Young: So
now let's get into Nginx tuning.
It seems boring, but
this is probably, as web developers,
probably something you'll
be very interested in.
I can make our site perform way
faster just by tuning our Nginx.
So I added in some slow sites.
So if I say jem.party,
or whatever your URL is,
if I say slow file,
we watch our network tab.
Man, this is taking a long time,
why is that?
Because I added in a timeout just to
simulate what a slow connection would
look like.
Lets say it's doing
a complex database query,
let's say it had to
parse a bunch of things.
I added a slow file in there so
we can learn how to speed this up.
And if you want an even slower file,
jem.party, if you go to cats,
it's gonna download a bunch
of very large cat pictures.
So large that you can't even see them,
but they're there.
That's great.
>> Jem Young: And
all these are on the GitHub repo.
If you look at the source code for
that Node app,
which we'll take a look at in a second.
You'll see just these routes in there
that I added just for convenience sake,
to understand how to make our
connections faster just using Nginx.
[LAUGH] Cats, that's great.
So to start with, let's start with gzip.
We touched on it a bit in the last class,
but can anybody tell me what gzip is?
You've probably heard of it.
Hazard a guess?
>> Speaker 2: To compress the file.
>> Jem Young: Yes, it compress files.
So we know zipping is an algorithm that
runs through and compresses files.
How does a zipping algorithm work,
in general?
Like high-level, super high-level,
how would you imagine you compress a file?
>> Speaker 2: Finds repeated strings and
then matches them to a smaller string?
>> Jem Young: That's exactly
right, perfect.
So all compression algorithms
work essentially the same.
It looks for repeated patterns,
it takes those and says,
instead of 00000000, I just say x50.
It just means I'm just gonna repeat
this over and over again, and
it's just a shortened syntax for repeating
bits and bytes over and over again.
And it's actually, it's brilliant once
your understand that, cuz you understand
compression, you understand how
every compression works in general,
how we make things smaller,
so great answer.
Gzip is the public version of,
well, it's not the public,
it's the widely adopted version of how
to compress files on the Internet.
Fortunately, most browsers, almost all
browsers support gzip to some degree, and
Apache and Nginx support gzipping content.
So what it does is,
all those cat pictures,
it's gonna compress those
down as best we can.
Pictures are very good
at being compressed.
And then it's gonna send down
those down to the server, or
send those down to the browser.
The browser's gonna unpack those using
an unzipper, and it shows it to you.
And because it's very well known, it's
very fast at doing this over and over and
over again.
So gzip is just a well known format for
doing that.
And you're thinking right now,
why are pictures particulary
good at being compressed?
Knowing what you know now about zipping,
what would you think?
>> Speaker 3: Similar colors?
>> Jem Young: Yes,
exactly right, cuz what is an image?
It's just the bitmap of hex colors or
what have you, just bits and bytes, and
generally they're repeated over and
over again.
So if we look at our, sorry, I'm just
nerding out a bit, cuz I think it's
interesting, if we look at our cat
picture, all this is the same color.
It can compress really well, cuz it's
just gonna say, the next million pixels,
it's just this color blue, rather than
this being blue, blue, blue, blue, blue,
it just compresses that down.
That's why images compress
particularly well.
Now, if you had complex data, say like a
JSON payload, it doesn't compress as well,
because there's not a lot of
patterns in there, not as much.
Yes, we're learning all about compression,
who knew,
full stack?
>> Jem Young: So if we wanna look at gzip,
let's look at our response headers, and
we'll see what Nginx is doing for us.
So in Chrome, or any browser you want,
let's open up your dev tools, and
let's look at the response headers.
>> Jem Young: It's not gzipping currently,
we'll fix that.
>> Jem Young: Maybe it's not doing.
It's probably not doing images.
>> Jem Young: So
we have two things we send
out with every request,
they're called the header files,
they go along with the packet we send out.
It's just saying, as a browser,
here is all the things that I accept.
I understand gzip, so I can accept gzips.
Don't worry about connection, do not track
the host, don't worry about the other
stuff, but these are the headers that
go out to the client or to the server.
The server reads these and
may or may not act on them.
The response headers is
what Nginx is sending back.
It's saying, okay,
here's a cache connection,
it's gzip encoded, etc., etc., etc.
Questions on headers?
I could do a whole course on different
headers because they're kind of what,
they're the instructions that make
your requests go out properly.
Any questions on headers, any at all?
>> Speaker 4: Can you think of
a reason why I would not have BR on mine,
and
accepting coding?
>> Jem Young: No,
maybe you're just using
different version of Chrome.
Yeah, as long as it takes gzip,
you're okay.
And even accepting coding,
it's kinda of an optional header cuz
almost all modern browsers
will take gzip now.
All right, no questions on headers.
Let's modify some headers then,
because again,
these are the instructions on telling
us how we should handle this request.
So in /var/etc/nginx/nginx.conf, no,
we're not in Nginx sites available
default, we're in nginx.conf.
nginx.conf applies to all the servers
you have running on your machine,
rather than if I go into default,
I'm editing specific server blocks
that just represent specific domains.
It's a bit more advanced cuz we haven't
covered how to run multiple domains on one
server, but it's just adding another
block to your Nginx configuration.
It's actually pretty easy, but so
let's take a look at our gzip settings,
because in general,
we want all of our requests to be gzipped.
So sudo vi
/etc/nginx/nginx.conf.
>> Speaker 5: Have
a question in chat.
>> Jem Young: What is X-Requested-With?
Yeah, all right, Alex is asking,
what is X-requested-With, that header?
That is a great question.
X-Requested-With just means,
who made the request?
So any X dash prefix is something that's
not specifically used by any server.
It's just more of an information,
just like X-Powered-With,
not used by me, not terribly useful,
but it's just saying Express is
the server that's running on the node.
We can make it not do that,
we can make X say anything.
But in general if you say, I want to pass
some information back to the client, but
I don't want Nginx to try to parse it or
anything like that,
just use an X dash whatever,
and you'll be safe.
But great question, if you ever see X,
it's usually just information, and
we're gonna add in an X header ourselves
to let us know about cache status, but
we'll get to that in a minute.
Great question though.
>> Jem Young: All right, so
we're in /etc/nginx/nginx conf.
>> Speaker 3: I
don't have etc folder in my-
>> Jem Young: I put that wrong.
You don't have, there we go, sorry,
apologies, I typed that incorrectly.
So it's /etc/nginx/nginx.conf.
>> Jem Young: So again,
these are the settings that apply for
every connection running through Nginx.
>> Jem Young: And
in general, this is where we do
the fine-tuning, if we wanted to, but for
now, we're just gonna do a gzip.
So I'm gonna search gzip at the bottom,
and gzip is on right now.
>> Jem Young: But
if I say, I want the default level, cuz
there's different levels you can compress
things with, different strengths you want
that algorithm to run against your file.
You can turn that all the way up to nine.
Not generally recommended, because again,
there's diminishing returns on,
yeah, your files may be
a couple of bytes smaller but
it cost you 20 extra
CPU cycles to do that.
It's probably not worth it,
you're not really saving any time.
Whereas rookie Jim would have said,
yeah, let's turn it up to nine,
why don't we always do that?
But when you're dealing with
hundreds of thousands of request,
you have to be more careful
with your CPU cycles.
So we're gonna leave it on 6,
actually turn it down to 5,
you can turn it on whatever you'd like.
>> Jem Young: And that's about it,
all we can do for gzip, it's already on.
>> Jem Young: But while
we're in this file, let's talk a little
bit more about Nginx configurations.
This is where all the things
that the logging,
how we work our processes, this is where
this happening in this nginx.conf.
We're not gonna touch that for now because
there's better observations we can make,
but let's say if we wanna change where
the logs are, we change it in here.
An interesting optimization we can do is,
instead of worker_processes auto,
I can change that to 2.
So what Nginx does, which makes it great,
is it auto scales for you.
So if you're getting a lot of
connections and it's just slow,
slow, slow, it'll spin up another process
on your computer on another core, and
just start handling traffic,
and it scales out all the way.
It scales out as much as you want.
Why wouldn't you want that though?
>> Speaker 5: A DDoS?
>> Jem Young: Yes, yes, DDoS,
things like that.
But mainly, if you're just running a web
server that's also running a database
server that's also running a node server,
you don't necessarily want Nginx to be
able to take over your whole machine if
someone's sending you a bunch of requests.
So if you cap it at, say, one,
you're saying no matter what,
Nginx is only gonna run at one process.
It could get slow if you're getting
hammered with a lot of requests, so
I'm just gonna leave it for auto for
now, but in the future, you should know
that Nginx will auto scale for you.
It's kind of something,
if you notice Nginx running seven
processes, something is probably wrong.
All right, any questions about this?
>> Jem Young: Awesome,
and here is where the rest
of the config files get put,
which is why sites enabled default, sites
enabled whatever you want to call it,
they all get put into
this block eventually.
And it's just included in your
virtual hosts, that's by default.
Awesome so, I'm gonna restart Nginx.
So first let me make sure I didn't
make any errors, sudo ngimx -t.
Looking good,
sudo service nginx
reload, awesome.
And we're all gzipped,
why is it trying to print?
Don't know.
>> Jem Young: And
we can increase our compression level.
At the bottom, I include a link
to the gzip module for Nginx.
If you wanna just dive
into all the settings and
tweak to your heart's content,
you can do that.
If you mess with gzip,
you probably not gonna break anything.
So you're pretty safe on the crap scale,
don't wanna touch it.
Feel free to play around with it,
try to tune as much as you can, but
there are more efficient things we can do
rather than trying to tweak gzip too much.